# Data deposit system

The NADA Data Deposit system is an optional component of the
application, which needs to be installed and activated separately from
the main application. It is intended to allow catalog administrators to
collect datasets from authenticated/authorized contributors. The current
version of the Data Deposit applies to microdata only. Future versions
of NADA will accommodate additional data types.Â  When the Data Deposit
is installed, a new item can be added to the main menu linking to a
landing page (to be developed by the catalog administrator). This
landing page should provide some information to data depositors on what
to deposit, and how, and a link to the Data Deposit application itself.

![](~@imageBase/images/image197.png)

## Overview

The Data Deposit system allows contributors to a data catalog to submit
datasets for publishing in the catalog. It does not automatically
publish or add content to the catalog; it is used to collect data,
metadata, and resources related to a dataset and transfer these
materials to a catalog's curation team. Typically, a Data Deposit system
will be implemented within an organization, on an intranet or
controlled-access server. For security reasons, the Data deposit should
not be used as a crowd-sourcing data gathering system.

The Data Deposit allows contributors to upload files, enter metadata
using templates, and provide instructions to the data curators. It logs
all activities, providing full traceability of the data acquisition
process. It informs depositors of their actions, providing confirmation
and evidence of data deposit when needed. It allows data curators to
organize the data curation work. The use of metadata templates reduces
the burden on data curators (when depositors enter detailed metadata);
it is however a system that minimizes the burden on data depositors. All
metadata is exportable to DDI 2.5

![](~@imageBase/images/image198.png)

## Installation and activation

... (@todo)

## Use by data depositors

The deposit application landing page displays information about the
catalog; deposit instructions and guidance for depositors to help them
prepare their data and documentation before they initiate the deposit
process, as well as what to expect once a deposit is submitted. Once a
contributor is ready to deposit, the first step is to click the Deposit
Data button. This prompts the contributor to log in to the application.

![](~@imageBase/images/image199.png)
Once a depositor logs in to the deposit application, the first page they
see is titled **My projects.** This page lists all deposit projects
initiated and submitted by the individual who is logged in, as well as
deposit projects where the individual is included as a collaborator.
From this page, a depositor can create new deposit projects, review
existing projects and monitor the status for each project in their list.

Deposit status can take any of the following values:

-   **Draft**: The depositor or named collaborators can edit, upload
    resources for any length of time until they are ready to submit, or
    they can delete the deposit project.

-   **Submitted:** This status is displayed when deposit project has
    been submitted. The depositor cannot edit or delete the project, but
    they can request the administrator to reopen the project if they
    need to add any resources or edit the deposit form.

-   **Accepted**: The deposit form has been reviewed by the
    administrator, the data and metadata have been transferred to the
    curators for processing. At this point, the depositor or any named
    collaborators cannot edit the request. If they need any changes made
    to the project, they will need to request the administrator to
    reopen the project (return it to draft status) on their behalf.

-   **Processed**: deposit is processed i.e., data and metadata are
    curated and if authorized for publication, the metadata and data are
    published in the catalog.

-   **Closed**

## Creating a new deposit project

![](~@imageBase/images/image200.png)

## Project information

The **Create New Project** button launches a form for the depositor to
enter basic deposit project information i.e., title, abbreviation and
description. The depositor can also specify email addresses of any
collaborators on the project who would also have view and edit rights to
the project. Collaboration and project description details are optional,
but the title and project short name are mandatory.

![](~@imageBase/images/image201.png)

Once this section is saved, a draft deposit project is created in the
system, assigned a unique project id, and listed under the specified
project title. On My Projects page, the project is listed with Edit,
(View) Summary, and Delete options available for the depositor.

![](~@imageBase/images/image202.png)

When editing the project, you will notice that there are additional tabs
available, and the project information is now displayed on the first
tab - the Project Information Tab.

![](~@imageBase/images/image203.png)

## Study Description

Click the **Study Description** tab to provide Study Description
details. The current version of the data deposit application accepts
microdata, so the deposit form fields correspond to DDI metadata fields,
which is the international metadata standard for microdata.

![](~@imageBase/images/image204.png)

There are a few functions available to aid the deposit process. The
depositor can adjust form settings, import metadata from another
project, expand/collapse all form fields.

## Adjustable form settings

By default, the study description form displays all the form fields.
However, the depositor can customize the form settings to hide/display
help (descriptions for each field including examples) or show only
recommended fields, or mandatory fields.

![](~@imageBase/images/image205.png)

***Show field help***

![](~@imageBase/images/image206.png)

***Show Recommended Fields***

![](~@imageBase/images/image207.png)

***Show Mandatory Fields***

![](~@imageBase/images/image208.png)

## Metadata Import

If a new project has a study description similar to an existing project,
the deposit application allows depositors to import metadata from a
project in their projects list, to avoid manually filling all the form
fields, and then edit as needed. To import, click the **Import
Metadata** button then select the relevant project to import from.

![](~@imageBase/images/image209.png)

## Form display options: Expand All/Collapse All

By default, the form is set to collapse all fields. Depending on
preference, the depositor can set the form to expand all fields or
collapse all fields by clicking on the relevant button. 'Expand all'
reveals all the form fields in each section. Collapse All hides the form
fields, and shows only the section titles to give the user an overall
view of the sections in the form.

The **Save** button is at the bottom of the Study Description form saves
the Study Description update to the deposit project. The deposit remains
in draft status and the project can be edited (or deleted) anytime until
it is submitted. Any pending tasks e.g mandatory fields that need to be
filled will be indicated in the **Pending Tasks** section to the left of
the form. Completed tasks are indicated by a green check mark.

## File Upload

Data Files and resources are uploaded from the **Data files and other
Resources** tab**.**

![](~@imageBase/images/image210.png)

The depositor can either drag and drop multiple files of up to 2G B and
click **Start Upload**, or click **Add Files**, navigate to the file
location to select files then click **Start Upload**. Allowed file types
are indicated in the above screenshot (jpg, jpeg, gif, png, zip, doc,
docx, pdf, sav, dta, txt, xls, xlsx, ppt, csv, rar, do, r, mp4, dbf,
sps). Uploaded files are listed in a table showing the file name, type
and size. This helps the depositor review the uploads and make sure the
correct files have been uploaded.

The depositor can update the files in the project by deleting or
uploading new files. A depositor can either delete individual files from
the Actions column, or through batch delete i.e., checking relevant file
names and selecting Delete from the batch actions dropdown menu then
clicking Apply. To upload new files, click the Upload button above the
top right corner of the table.

![](~@imageBase/images/image211.png)

Depositors have the option to define the file or document type when
uploading resources. This is done via the Edit link. This step is
optional for the depositor as file type can also be defined during
curation.

![](~@imageBase/images/image212.png)

Now in place of N/A, the Type column will reflect the file type as
defined by the depositor. The total file count is displayed under
Pending Tasks and on the bottom right corner of the table.

![](~@imageBase/images/image213.png)

## Citations (optional)

The **Citations** tab is optional and is used to enter details of any
publications that have used the data being deposited.

![](~@imageBase/images/image214.png)

To add a citation, click the **Add New Citation** button to launch the
citations form.

![](~@imageBase/images/image215.png)

Once all the details are added and submitted, the new citation will be
listed under the citations tab with options to edit or delete it and add
another citation. The number of citations added to the project is also
listed under Pending Tasks. To add another citation, click the **Add New
Citation** button and follow the same process.

![](~@imageBase/images/image216.png)

## Deposit Review and Submit

The Review and Submit tab has two sub-menus, a Review tab and a Submit
tab. The default view is the Review tab which presents all the project
details, study description, files and citations for review.

From this tab, the depositor can generate a DDI xml file and a resource
description file (RDF) -- exporting the metadata to machine readable
format that can be read by software including NADA; a print preview
(summary of the deposit); or email the deposit information to others for
review. These options are available on the top right above the project
information box.

![](~@imageBase/images/image217.png)

![](~@imageBase/images/image218.png)

![](~@imageBase/images/image219.png)

Once all the deposit information is reviewed and found to be
satisfactory, it is ready for submission. Project submission is done
from the Submit sub-menu.

![](~@imageBase/images/image220.png)

This presents a form where the depositor specifies

-   **Access policy** suitable for the data, in line with the data terms
    of use

-   **Catalog to publish** -- if there are multiple catalogs

-   **Embargo information** - If the dataset is embargoed, the depositor
    indicates the terms of the embargo e.g., time-period and any other
    special instructions.

-   **Disclosure risk** - Safeguarding the identity and privacy of
    respondents that have provided the data is important. The depositor
    can specify any identifying variables in the data (e.g., names,
    official ID numbers, precise GIS coordinates, etc, or any variables
    deemed otherwise sensitive in the study setting (e.g., ethnicity,
    tribe, religion, etc) so they can be treated before the data is
    distributed. Ideally these would be treated before the data is
    deposited.

-   **Key variables**

-   **Notes to the library**

-   **cc** -- email addresses of additional people who will also receive
    a summary of the deposit submission.

Once this information is submitted, the depositor is given opportunity
to confirm submission with the understanding that they will not be able
to edit the deposit once it is submitted. Clicking the **Submit** button
will submit the deposit. The depositor receives a confirmation email of
the deposit.

![](~@imageBase/images/image221.png)

The updated status of the deposit is reflected on **My Projects** page,
and a summary of the deposit can be viewed by clicking on the project
title. At this point the project cannot be edited or deleted. If any
updates need to be made to the project after submission, the depositor
needs to contact the administrator to request the project to be
re-opened.

![](~@imageBase/images/image222.png)

The status of the deposit will as change as the deposit goes through the
curation workflow. It will be updated to reflect the current status of
the deposit.