# Menu

## Adding a new page

New HTML pages can be added to your NADA catalog, accessible from the
main (top) menu. By default, NADA will have the Home, Catalog,
Citations, and Login menu items. In the example below, the "How to? item
was added as a custom menu item and catalog page.

![](~@imageBase/images/image83.png)

## Using the administrator interface 

Login as administrator, then click **Meny \> All pages.**

![](~@imageBase/images/image84.png)
A list of currently existing pages will be displayed. From this table,
pages can be deleted, or opened to be edited. The type "Link" indicates
that the page corresponds to NADA-generated content (default pages), not
to user-designed HTML pages.

![](~@imageBase/images/image85.png)

To add a new HTML page and create a menu item to access it, click **Add
new page**

![](~@imageBase/images/image86.png)

Give a title to the new page, and a URL (the URL you provide here will
be automatically preceded with your catalog URL). Enter the content in
the HTML editor (assuming the option to edit HTML pages was activated in
the catalog Settings). Indicate whether clicking on the page's menu item
should open the page in the same or in a new window, and whether you
want the page to be published or not (in which case it will be
considered as a draft). The Weight argument is used to order the page in
the menu item (which can also be done using the **Reorder menu** tool;
see below). When done, click on **Update**.

![](~@imageBase/images/image87.png)

The NADA administrator interface and the embedded HTML editor provide
limited options to customize the design of the page. To produce pages
with more complex content and/or design, you can use your own tools to
customize this page. \[where to find it? What happens when you upgrade
to a new NADA?\]

## Using the API 

## Adding a new link

What are links?

## Using the administrator interface 

To add a link, proceed as for adding a new page, but click on **Add new
link**.

![](~@imageBase/images/image88.png)

![](~@imageBase/images/image89.png)

## Using the API 

Not doable via API.

## Reordering the top menu

## Using the administrator interface 

To change the order in which the menu items appear in the user
interface, proceed as for adding new menu, then click on **Reorder
menu**.

![](~@imageBase/images/image90.png)

Drag and drop to position the menu items in the desired order, then
click **Update**.

![](~@imageBase/images/image91.png)

## Using the API 

The main menu cannot be controlled by API.