# Translating NADA

NADA was developed using English as the "base" language. It can however
be translated, and translations can be shared. To translate NADA, click
on **Translate** in the **Settings** menu.

Translating NADA is done using a user interface as described below. The
output of a translation will consist of a series of PHP files (with
extension \[.php\]) that can be uploaded on the server where NADA is
installed. Instructions on where to save these files, and on how to
activate a new language, are provided below. The IHSN will make
translations originating from reputable organizations available on the
NADA website.

NADA can be translated into any language that uses an alphabet
compatible with \[encoding\]? This includes languages like Arabic that
require a right-to-left display of strings (note that the NADA interface
will not change; only the labels will be shown in right-to-left mode).

Note also that the application allows translation from English to
English. This option is used to modify the display of labels/text in the
NADA interface. It allows catalog administrators to adapt the user
interface to specific terms used in their organization.

![](~@imageBase/images/image236.png)


## Adding or selecting the new language 

@todo - add a button in the UI.

Select the language and click "Edit".

![](~@imageBase/images/image237.png)

## Translating content in the user interface

![](~@imageBase/images/image238.png)

The items for which no translation is available will be displayed with a
red background. Enter your translation in the box. Note that if the
length of the translation is significantly longer than the text in
English, the text may not display properly in the interface (when used
in menus, buttons, or other locations with limited space).

![](~@imageBase/images/image239.png)

After translating a section, make sure to Save it.

![](~@imageBase/images/image240.png)

To translate the text in an optimized manner, it will in some cases be
important to know where the translation will be used. This will ensure
not only that the translation is correct in the specific context where
it is used but will also allow translators to verify that the
translation will fit in the allocated space where it will be used (in
some cases, this space can be fixed and limited; when the translation of
a string significantly exceeds the length of the English text, it may
result in display issues).

The following table provides information on the NADA pages where the
translation contained in different sections/files will be used:

  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------
                                      

                                      

                                      

                                      

                                      

                                      

                                      
  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------

## Activating the translation

The Download option in the Translate summary table allows you to
download the PHP files containing the translations and share them with
other NADA users.

![](~@imageBase/images/image241.png)

![](~@imageBase/images/image242.png)

How to use these files in my NADA?